We have the service, we've abstracted
it out, but kind of this next level,
this next piece that we need to kind of
bake in, talking about stage management
is ultimately in an application,
what is the single source of truth?
Well, it's not in the front end usually.
Typically, it's within the database but
exposed via some API, and so
we definitely need the ability to
communicate to a remote endpoint and
perform actions.
And so if we go into our application and
this was kind of baked
in from the beginning.
But I wanna talk about first,
how do you mock out a REST API?
This is a really valuable tool
that I've used quite a bit.
And so using JSON server, the package,
that you can then point to
a JSON file, and so
in this case, it's db.jason.
And you can expose a data
structure as a REST endpoint.
And and I think if I look at my terminal,
I'll see this up here,
so localhost 3000, so
let's go here, we save this.
And let's just go into browser real quick
so you can kinda see what this looks like.
Here we go, so we have courses.
And so now, we have this basically this
REST endpoint just off of this JSON file.
And so this is really, really handy
when you wanna start building and
developing an application locally.
Now, I will say this is that I have
worked on projects where the frontend
team is working faster than the backend or
the API team.
Not a problem, but
because we can agree on the data models,
all we did is we basically spun up JSON
server with some mock data that matched
the native models that we agreed on,
and we got our end working.
And then when the API team was done,
they just swapped out the endpoint and
it just worked.
So with that said, we are going to consume
this endpoint, so let me close this down.
And now, we're going to start to flesh out
the courses service to actually
communicate with the backend.
And so in order to do that,
the first thing that we need to do
is we need to make sure
that we're using the HTTP
model, and so it is here.
So typically, when you generate a CLI
project, it will add this in, so
this is the HTTP client module.
And this makes it possible
to make HTTP calls.
So now, if we go into our courses service,
we can start to migrate or
transition this to instead of using
kind of this home brewed functionality to,
in fact us or make remote calls.
So I'm going to inject HTTP quiet,
and from here we can start to make call.
So let me see real quick,
I may have a slide for
this but, I do.
So let me just pull this over and
just so we can see this
in just from a high level.
So if you're familiar with RESTful verbs,
which is get, put, post,
delete, patch, I really don't use
requests with a very general one.
And I don't think I've ever used head.
But I definitely use get, post,
put, and delete quite a bit.
And so HTTP client essentially
has these methods on it
that match up to HTTP verbs,
very, very convenient.
And so I think it's just
easier to see that as a list.
And so from here, under all,
what we're going to do is we're going to
make a call this.http.get and
you can see here, it's looking for
some bit of information.
Because this is a simple get,
we need essentially to pass in a URL.
So if we go back into our browser,
I think I had localhost
3000 in this case courses.
And there are some things you can do
around this but we'll start nice and easy.
I'm just going to do CONST BASE_URL.
Typically, I would add this to
like an environment config file.
And so this is the the base URL, and
that's not uppercase, there we go.
And then what I'm going
to do here is we're
just gonna add in
a property called model and
we're dealing with courses.
So this is an endpoint for
the courses data model.
And so what we can do now is we can
construct this URL using base URL and
this.model.
Now, when I call this all,
what it's going to do is it's
going to make an HTTP call and
then it's going to return an observable.
So an observable is very much
like a promise, except that
instead of getting one value,
it gets many, many values.
And I absolutely love observables,
this could be an entire
frontend master's course.
Wait, it is Jafar saying hi five,
that changed my life and so
there's a lot of power, there's a lot
of things you can do with observables.
I'm not going to have time
to get into all of them.
But do know that I think one of the other
things that Angular got, right really,
really right is by baking
observables into the framework,
making it very easy to be reactive because
observables when something changes
at the origination point, it pushes it
out to anything that is consuming it.
And so maybe if we have time,
I may talk about that a bit more.
But for now just know that sort of
a promise, you're getting an observable.
So if I go back to my courses component,
now when we call this courses service,
what we're going to get is
a promise that we have to
Resolve, so I can go .subscribe.
And then from here I can go courses,
this.courses = courses, all right?
So let's save this.
And let's see if indeed,
Let's see if I get this right,
I love this keyboard, there we go.
So one thing I'm noticing in the template,
I'll fix certainly not a deal breaker,
but I somehow have duplicated that line,
all right?
So if we go back to our component here,
refresh this, and we're seeing that it's
loading, I think everything is okay.
Let's look in the Network tab,
let's do this one more time.
And hopefully, what you'll see here
is that we now have courses and
it's doing a get request and
calling courses.
And then you can see
the response here is that it's
returning the object from the endpoint.
The thing I like about RST
by the way is that it is
pretty conventional, so let's do create.
Now when you create,
you can do return this dot HTTP, for
create I use post and
we'll use the same URL.
Now, what's interesting
is my muscle memory,
my spidey sense, is going off.
And it's saying,
you just duplicated this, like what's up?
And so at this point, I'd go here,
private getUrl, And
return, This.
And so this is a way for
me to not have to duplicate this code.
I think now when I find myself
typing something more than once,
especially in the same class, so that's
where I kind of draw the line is there's
there's three convention and duplication.
In this case,
it was very much duplication.
And then what I also need to send
is the payload which is course,
so when we create the course then
it's going to also send as that URL, it's
going to pass the payload over the wire.
So now, if we go here and,
I'm just gonna go, subscribe,
and let's just see
what this is cuz I'm not for
sure what exactly it is.
And so this would depend on whatever
server using whatever server you are using
what the result could be,
I've seen it vary.
So console.log, COURSE CREATED.
Result, okay, so of course created and
let's dump out the result.
So in our application, we'll go,
Ryan is a demigod,
that was a really good course by the way,
0% and let me pull up the console.
Submit and course created.
Now, if we look at the Network tab,
preview so this is over the wire,
what we're sending is title,
all the stuff,
etc and you'll notice that up
at the top This is a post.
Now, the response is we now have an ID.
And so that's where I delineate
between a new component or
something I need to create or
something I need to update.
And so now one thing, we've created this,
but it still doesn't exist.
So there's a couple different
ways that you can handle this.
You can do optimistic or
pessimistic loading.
And so for instance, you can say I'm
not going to update the UI until I'm
certain that this operation has completed.
You can do optimistic loading or
an optimistic operation or
say I'm going to update the UI, which is
a better, more responsive user experience.
But if something goes wrong, then you have
to figure out how to go kind of undo that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to do probably the easiest thing,
and that is when this is completed,
all I do is I just rehydrate
the data structure in.
In I think for very small data set,
this is fine or
something is basically is
changing a lot of the server
you kind of need to
redehydrate that anyway.
So now,
I could see here like core services
all I kind of need to use this again.
So what I'll do is we'll
extract this into or
extract this rather,
I guess abstract would probably work and
we're going to create a load
courses method and boom water ta.
Now, what I'll do up here
is this.loadcourses, cool.
And now,
because I've extracted that method,
I can now come down here and
just say load courses.
What is this?
There we go, okay,
now let's try this one more time.
Over here, refresh,
I think we're good, it does exist.
And so let's create a new one.
What's the last course I watched?
Do GraphQL for the masses.
This was Scott Moss is the boss,
I'm sure he's never heard that.
And we'll submit, and
notice, ta-da,
hopefully we captured this, we did.
Let me do it again,
We'll do Creating a Course Empire,
we'll call this Learning Empire.
Mark G, gets it done, All right?
So now, there we go.
So we sent it over the wire,
but then once I completed,
then we went and
we got the rest of it, so there we go.
So on that note, I think we can infer on
some level what it would take to finish,
create, read.
So we've done, read and create,
what it would take to do update,
and delete?
And as well,
there's a little bit of an issue here
that I'm going to challenge everybody
to think about how would I solve this?
Notice I created this course, but
it's still selected over here.
How would we fix that?
So let me check in what I have
and then we will do a challenge.